ah imagine for a moment the worst car
crash or accident that you've ever seen
or heard about imagine the smoke the
skid marks the glass thrown about the
highway the metal from the car
twisted and torn screams of the victims
maybe a little bit of blood often the
distance a siren approaching as it
responds to the accident bystanders
running up to assist moment later you
hear there's fatalities involved a
mother or father and a child this is a
problem in America this is a global
epidemic in fact and it's called texting
while driving we need to get a handle on
this America why does this affect you
and me 20 years ago this wasn't a
problem we didn't have cell phones the
problem then as it is still today is
alcohol it was alcohol impaired driving
as a result of folks who had been
getting the vehicles drinking or on
drugs
now we've complicated things a little
bit more cell phones
it's estimated that 5800 lives are lost
were lost last year alone of those 5800
it all could have been prevented texting
and driving using handheld devices in
the vehicles it's preventable it's
tragic and it's not just minor traffic
accidents 5800 dead you may have been
affected you may have known somebody
that's been affected I've got five
thousand eight hundred four hundred
forty eight thousand were injured might
have been minor injuries may have been
severe serious injuries some may have
never recovered
the bottom line is these are preventable
don't text and don't drive well you
might be asking yourself well why do I
need to be here what's in this for me I
own a cell phone but I don't talk on it
well of those five thousand eight
hundred lives you have a forty eight
hundred percent chance
being involved in a motor vehicle
fatality that involves either death or
the loss of level of the limb let me
repeat that four to eight hundred
percent chance of death or the loss of a
limb well that may not involve you
specifically but what about that guy to
your right or that woman in front of you
are those teenagers in the vehicle
behind you I always drive with one eye
on the road in front of me one eye on
the road behind me in my rear view
mirror
it's called situational awareness can't
underestimate that enough
even though you in fact may not be using
your handheld device texting for talking
somebody around you might for every five
seconds you take your eyes off the road
and that's the average to look at a text
message or answer phone call that's the
equivalent of a point zero eight alcohol
level legally drunk texting and driving
causes loss of life and it is 100%
preventable additionally it results in
traffic citations thirty states have
banned driving using any communication
device that numbers climbing
police are creating task forces that
crack down on texting and driving and
the average cost of a traffic citation
for a first offense is $175 I don't know
about you but I'd really like to spend
under $75 elsewhere rather than
supporting my local government as a
pre-hospital trauma life support
instructor for over 20 years working
with the military I've seen firsthand
the effects of distracted driving it's
not always drugs and alcohol but more
often than not and most recently it's
involving the use of handheld devices
such as cell phones these are all
preventable accidents all preventable
accidents
hmm well
you throw a couple more interesting
statistics to you 49% of drivers on the
road today age 35 and below have self
disclosed that they use handheld devices
all that interesting fad coupled with
four hundred forty eight thousand
injured five thousand eight hundred dead
it's no secret this is a problem this is
pervasive in our country and this is all
too common we need to educate our youth
we need to educate ourselves and we need
to educate our community on the pitfalls
of texting and driving today and closing
and in summary let me just say this
texting and driving is illegal it's not
smart
clearly it represents two 5800 lives
that could be saved four hundred forty
eight thousand lives that have been
affected that could have been prevented
and a lot of money that could have been
saved in terms of insurance rates
tickets and citations listen to me when
I say this before you get in your
vehicle take your phone tuck it away
turn it off lock it in the trunk it's
not worth it it's not worth it to you
it's not worth it to the 5800 lives that
hit that have been lost for the four
hundred forty eight thousand lives that
have been effective for more information
on texting and driving please log on to
the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration Department of
Transportation website under texting and
driving be safe and please don't text
and drive